Hello, my name's Ed Pryor and
I am a z/OS function tester,
and I've come here to
talk a little bit more in
depth about a few things
that Jeff mentioned.
Specifically, we support
conditional logic inside JCL,
you can use if, then,
and else to control
the flow of your job.
So if you have
a program that has a
return code associated with it,
you can actually code into
your JCL, slash, slash, if,
return code less than four
or if return code greater
than eight or if return code
is greater than four
but less than eight,
then do this step,
else do this other step.
It gives you a great deal
of control over
what your program
is actually doing.
We also mentioned
nested procedures.
So if you follow
the general rule,
don't put the sequence PROC PROC
PEND PEND in your code,
you won't bump into this issue.
The idea being that
you're not allowed to
code a procedure inside
of another procedure,
they have to be separate.
So PROC PEND then PROC
PEND not PROC
PROC PEND PEND.
Pretty cool.
While you're working
with procedures,
you can nest them
as we mentioned,
but you also are allowed to
scope symbols as you
drop down that chain.
So as you dive deeper
into your nested procs,
you end up allowing
yourself to overwrite
different symbols at
different levels. Pretty cool.
One thing I learned recently was
the actual connecting fiber
between those DD
statements in your JCL,
and the actual programs
you're running.
So the names on those DD,
so your SYSIN or your SORTIN or your out whatever,
that's actually controlled by
the programmer who
wrote the program.
So you give it the DD name that's
controlled by whatever they
opened as a DCB inside
their program.
Talking more about
dispositions in JCL.
If you want to have
a temporary data set that you
can stuff output into and
then forget about later,
you can use the disposition
combination new delete
on your dd statement
to specify a data set
that the system will clean up at
job termination time allowing
you to fill the needs
that your program has
without having to worry
about allocating space
on a disk beforehand.
I'm Ed Pryor and this has been
just a deeper dive into
a few topics. I hope
you've enjoyed.